## The Jenny Pipeline

The code generator system works as a pipeline that runs the following steps:

1. **[[Configuration|Codegen-Configuration]]**: Read all configuration options from the `.properties` files in your project's root directory, and configure all plugins accordingly.
2. **[[Pre-Processing|Codegen-Preprocessing]]**: Pre-process your code or environment, via plugins that implement `IPreProcessor`.
3. **[[Parsing and Caching|Codegen-Parsing-and-Caching]]**: Parse your project's code into a format that the rest of your plugins can use.
4. **[[Data Extraction|Codegen-Data-Providers]]**: Extract whatever data you want from your project and store it in a big array for use by code generators.  The extraction is done by plugins that implement `IDataProvider`, and is stored in an array of instances or subclasses of `CodeGeneratorData`.
5. **[[Code Generation|Codegen-Generation]]**: The code is generated by any plugin that implements `ICodeGenerator`, and stored in instances of `CodeGenFile`.  A `CodeGeneratorData[]` containing *all* data from *all* `IDataProvider`s is made available for use as you see fit. 
6. **[[Post-Processing|Codegen-Postprocessing]]**: The generated code is post-processed by all plugins that implement `IPostProcessor`.  The previously-generated `CodeGenFile`s are made available to post-processors and can be manipulated freely.
7. **[[Using Generated Code|Codegen-Results]]**: Your code is now ready for use!

These stages are run in sequence, and each plugin within a stage is run in sequence.  However, an individual plugin can process data in parallel if you'd like.

Each page describes a stage of the pipeline in detail.